{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 redefining words\
\
\
# al {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.alturtle.com/archives/818"}}{\fldrslt http://www.alturtle.com/archives/818}}\
\
Busy - http://www.badsandwichchronicles.net/2014/05/oh-im-busy-with-hollywood-shit/ \
Writing - http://calnewport.com/blog/2017/08/27/toward-a-deeper-vocabulary/\
Truth \'96 A \'93something that is going on\'94 which all humans experience differently. Immediate contact with reality.\
Listening \'96 putting energy into the conscious hearing of another person\'92s verbal and non-verbal communication.\
Stupid \'96 That friendly and thoughtful state  you were in before you learned something new.  Knowledge is \'93terminal\'94. Once you\'92ve learned something, you can\'92t go back to being stupid again.\
Other-Esteem \'96 a somewhat fragile tendency to like yourself or admire yourself if others like or admire you.\
 I define self-esteem as \'93liking yourself even with others hate you.\'94  I define other-esteem as \'93liking yourself only if others like you.\'94 \
Guilt \'96 a silly kind of fear that someone is going to punish you for being human and for learning.  Guilt is based on time travel.  It is putting today\'92s wisdom into yesterday\'92s event.  \'93 Yesterday, I should have known what I have now learned.\'94  I suggest you celebrate the new learning and discard the fear.\
\
# brene brown {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Evwgu369Jw"}}{\fldrslt https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Evwgu369Jw}}\
\
empathy - fuels connection. perspective taking, staying out of judgement,  recognizing emotion in other people, and communicating that. feeling with you. "i know what its like down here and youre not alone". doesn\'92t begin with at least. "im just so glad you told me". antitode to shame (secrecy, silence, and judgement". "me too" is the most powerful thing you can say to someone. you will never be perfect and bullproof. \
\
sympathy - drives disconnection. no silver lining. using "at least, you know you can x"\
\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hEUXUHAkC5A\
"it is not the critic that counts. the credit goes to the man in the arena". when you armor up you shut yourself down. without vulnerability you can\'92t create\
\
invite the critics to the arena (e.g. shame, comparison, scarcity, other). invite people who love you into the arena. not thinking b/c they love you they are unimportant. be very clear who the critics are. save a spot for yourself in the arena.\
\
worthiness - people who have strong sense of love and belonging feel like they are worthy of love and belonging. \
created by:\
\
courage - cur (heart) - tell the story of who you are with your whole heart. the courage to be imperfect. \
compassion - be kind to yourself first, and then to others. b/c cant practice compassion unless we treat ourselves kindly\
\
connection - as the result of authenticity.willing to let go of who they thought they should be in order ot be who they were.\
\
vulnerability - what makes them vulnerable makes them beautiful. not comfortable, not excruciating. just necessary. willingness to say i love you first. where there are no guarentees. invest in a relationship that may or may not workout. trying to initiate sex is vulnerable. we cannot selectively numb emotion. \
\
trust - is like a marble jar friend. built in very small moments. asking about family. helping you figure out things. attending funeral. asking for help when you need it. sliding door moments, to choose to not connect when the opportunity is there is a betrayal. \
\
reliability - you say what you are going to do over and over and over again. thus you need to be really clear in your limitations too. that doesnt mean saying you want to hang out and then not doing it just to be nice.\
\
authenticity is a practice. it is a chocie. you got to let go of the fake. laughing at jokes that arent funny to you is not authentic\
\
recogning with emotion - you are going to fall. how do you know you are in emotion? when you are unable to see any other perspective. physical experience that is different. emotions are driving. that reduces ambiguity. what am i feeling, what am i know for sure. story to minimize. recognize you\'92ve been snagged about emotion and get curious about it. all you need to do is get curious about it. write down the stroy!!! 1) story 2) whats true 3) what do i need to know more about. then "do you have a sec and im making up a story your mad at me etc, can we clean it up?" we are better at inflicting pain than receiving pain. most people only know 3 emotions happy, sad, pissed off. \
\
a fall - can be failure, confabulation (lie told honestly). \
\
make a list of people you give shit about.\
\
Perfectionism is armor. It's not internally driven like healthy striving. It's externally driven and fueled by "What will people think?" Perfectionism is a shield that keeps us from being seen. Here's to a genuine, unarmored, messy, awkward, compassionate, less-than-perfect week.\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://brenebrown.com/blog/2018/05/17/dehumanizing-always-starts-with-language/"}}{\fldrslt https://brenebrown.com/blog/2018/05/17/dehumanizing-always-starts-with-language/}}\
 dehumanization as \'93the psychological process of demonizing the enemy, making them seem less than human and hence not worthy of humane treatment.\'94}