{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Easily the most profound ideas from modern clinical psychology is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). For those unfamiliar, the key tenet of CBT is that *if we can change the way we think, then we can change the way we feel*. In practice, CBT involves learning to recognize distortions in thinking, and then addres these issues with new improved practices. For example, people often use the word "should" in everyday life. "You should focus on school". "You shouldn\'92t eat so much junk food". "You should be grateful for this opportunity". But what are the implications of talking to people or thinking like this? Well for one, each of these statements show an implicit incompletion. Each statement represents an internal deficiency. *You are lacking willpower and are not doing the right thing*. To some degree each of these statements says is a power play from the speaker, implying that they know better than you.\
\
\
I find this idea to be extremely profound. To me, CBT proves that our everyday vocabularly has profound impact on how we feel. "Should" statements can be bad for our mental health, but very people realize this. "Should" is not taught to as a dirty word. CBT addresses a few other words that have negative mentla health aspects (e.g., "always", "never"), but I\'92ve always been concerned that this list of words is incomplete, and that there are likely other words with deleterious effects but not addressed. It may be true that the language not addressed by CBT is not related to mental illness, but isn\'92t interesting to think about the implications from other words? What other word definitions do people have trouble distinguishing? I understand that this post is bordering on philosophy, but I find it enjoyable thought exercise if anything. Below are the words in my life that I\'92ve tried to redefine.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
If you have suggestions, please or leave them in the comments. I\'92d like to know.\
\
\
\
\
}