{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## jojo talk with al\
\
when people upset with me, i need to tell my lizard its not going to die. boundaries.\
\
"relationship is all about changing. people can always change".\
speaking too fast / refocus questions. then ask twice if it doesnt happen. take responsibility to calm your own lizard.\
\
living together makes intamacy fast. being apart makes it slow.\
\
\
## blog\
\
This was about the point in my life when I began to answer nice Why questions using the phrase, \'93Some of the factors (reasons) are probably\'85\'85\'94  \
\
 A better way to say that would be \'93I feel scared when I think you are picking on me.\'94  Now the feeling has been introduced into the sentence and the thought \'93I think you are picking on me\'94 has been correctly labeled. \
\
Feelings are anger, fear, sad, joy, hungry, alert, lonely, etc. These are single words, sometimes many of them. \'93I am feeling very hungry, thirsty, and a bit lonely.\'94\
\
## safety and the lizard\
\
if i\'92m thinking something, and i think it might upset you. would you like me to a) tell you anyway b) keep it to myself.\
\
\
what unsafe looks like . flighting, freezing, fleeing, \
\
"You\'92ll never get love by chasing a lizard."\
\
What could I do to help you feel safer? Ask questions about the lizard. Before after during.\
\
Safety means your pulse goes down when you see your partner. When they arrive in the driveway to go ahhhh. When they go on vacation alone, you are not worried. When they dont talk for a few hours you are not worried. when their lizard is freaked out, you are not worried.\
\
\
There are 4 in your relationship. 2 lizards, 2 partners. don\'92t ever threaten lizard, don\'92t ever belittle the lizard.\
\
\
## Staying Dialogical (Mirroring)\
\
You can state your opinion more strongly if you state  as a tagline that you know people might disagree. \
\
You want to give people the impression that they heard you. "I hear that". Repeat back what they say.\
\
"Ok I can talk louder"\
\
"Do you have more to say"\
\
"Please tell me more about this / go on "\
\
It is good to interrupt if you can\'92t hear. It is rude to not-interrupt in that situation\
\
"i am can\'92t talk write now, can we make a date to talk in x minutes / tonight"\
\
i\'92ll repeat what i said, because i feel like i didn\'92t quite hear me. mirroring is a training tool. it is about making someone feel heard. the goal is not to mirror, but learn the hundreds of skills.\
\
" i\'92m not threatened by my wife saying i messed up her dreams" \
\
when things are getting touchy you kick into higher mirroring.\
\
using mirror to test lizard > if you say can you say could you just say back what i said and she says no, you should probably be mirroing her. you don\'92t throw it away and get mad, just it;s your time to start mirror.\
\
## Living with Someone\
\
when you live with someone else there is no reality. we both see reality differently. \
\
living alone is easier for everyone. living with someone takes new skills. a relationship is democracy\
\

\b there is no right and wrong! don\'92t state "facts", only point of view! we affirm our partners right to make decisions in their own life.\
\

\b0 ## frustration\
\
al likes frustrations because they are gold in a relationship.\
\
shift from "you frustrated me", to "when you did that i was frustrated"\
you want something, something is blocking it, you feel frustrated.\
\
we 
\i justify
\i0  our anger. we sound like lawyers in a court. some sort of blaming goes on. \
\
the feeling doesnt cause the reaction. the reaction is a protection to a fear.  the hidden fear is extremely valuable. \
\
what do you fear would happen if you didnt do reactive behavior. punished / attacked / abandoned / ignored. what did your partner do that actually triggered behavio - what you interpret vs actual is not the same always. heal the would, and the triggers won\'92t effect you.\
\
any sentence that implies single truth, is master talk. it is opposite of being dialogical. \
al loves disagreement~\
\
\
## from blog\
\
\'93I never heard of a relationship that was broken up from the outside.\'94\
\
  "I was wondering about something you did the other day.  If you ever figure out what was going on for you when you did that, I'd love to hear about it.  In the meantime, let's have dinner."  Notice how these are all statements with no question mark at the end of them.  Many people feel pushed by questions.  Just being asked a question often feels like an attack.  So, just don't do it.}