{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # How to start a revolution\
\
bias map of behaviors from intergroup affect and stereotypes\
bertrand russell \'97 envy is of course closely connected with competition \'85\
\
\
Readers may recall a sequence from Michael Moore\'92s \'93Fahrenheit 9/11,\'94 in which Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz was inadvertently caught licking his comb as he readied to go on camera. The moment was imperishable, and cruel. As it happens, Curtis has made it a recurring emblem of his work to show familiar figures of power \'97 Tony Blair, Ronald Reagan, Thatcher, Putin, many others \'97 in interstitial moments of a similar kind, often precisely when they have taken a chair in preparation for the red light to go on, and are either unaware they are already being recorded or too bored to care.\
mturkers full or slighty longer video of authority.\
\
\'93Movies are an authoritarian medium,\'94 wrote David Foster Wallace in 1996. \'93They vulnerabilize you and then dominate you.\'94 Wallace\'92s cautionary tone typifies humanistic reservations about the power of the moving image, in the hands of a spellbinder like Curtis (or, in Wallace\'92s essay, David Lynch). \'93Film\'92s overwhelming power isn\'92t news,\'94 Wallace continued. \'93But different kinds of movies use this power in different ways. Art film is essentially teleological: it tries in various ways to \'91wake the audience up\'92 or render us more \'91conscious.\'92\uc0\u8201 \'94\
\
I call it the I.A.R., the Inappropriate Aesthetic Response. I date it back to Warhol. It\'92s this idea you can take horrific images like the electric chair and aestheticize them. The beheading videos, the orange jumpsuits against the desert background; ISIS uses that knowingly. I have a ruthless theory, that the radical-art movement, which grew out of the failure of revolutionary politics, becomes the outriders for the property developers. You need the aesthetic of decline in order to make those buildings desirable.\'94\
\
 \'93hyperobject.\'94 Global warming is a classic example of a hyperobject: it\'92s everywhere and nowhere, too encompassing to think about. Global markets, too. But naming a hyperobject alone is of limited use; human cognition knows all too well how to file such imminent imponderables away, on a \'93to-do\'94 list that\'92s never consulted again.\
\
oviet Union was, among Russians, both unsurprising and unforeseen. Yurchak coined the term \'93hypernormalization\'94 to describe this process\'97an entropic acceptance and false belief in a clearly broken polity and the myths that undergird it.}